Breast cancer the most common cancer among women worldwide accounting for 25 percent of all cancer cases
and affected 2.1 million people in 2015 early diagnosis significantly increases the chances of survival.
The key challenge in cancer detection is how to classify tumors into malignant or benign machine learning
techniques can dramatically improves the accuracy of diagnosis.
Research indicates that most experienced physicians can diagnose cancer with 79 percent accuracy while
91 percent correct diagnosis is achieved using machine learning techniques.
In this case study our task is to classify tumors into malignant or benign tumors using features of
pain from several cell images.
Let's take a look at the cancer diagnosis and classification process.
So the first step in the cancer diagnosis process is to do what we call it final needle aspirate or
if any process which is simply extracting some of the cells out of the tumor.
And at that stage we don't know if that human is malignant or benign.
When you say malignant or benign as you guys can see these are kind of the images of the this would
be benign tumor and this is the malignant tumor.
And when we say benign that means that the tumor is kind of not spreading across the bodies of the patient
is safe somehow.
It's if it's malignant That means it's it's a cancerous.
That means we need to intervene and actually stop the cancer growth.
Right.
And what we do here in the machine learning aspect so now as we extracted all these images and we wanted
to specify if that cancer out of these images is malignant or benign that's the whole idea.
So what we do with that we extract out of these images some features when we see features that mean
some characteristics out of the image such as radius for example the cells such as texture perimeter
area smoothness and so on.
And then we feed all these features into kind of our machine learning model in a way which is kind of
a brain in a way.
OK.
If you guys I'm not familiar with machine learning techniques in general we're going to cover all that
needs from scratch.
But again if you if this is a first kind of a case study or find a first project you've got going to
work on a machine learning.
The idea is we want to teach the machine how to basically classify images or classify data and tell
us OK if it's malignant or benign for example in this case without any human intervention which is going
to change the model once the model is trained we're good to go we can use it in practice to classify
new images as we move forward.
All right.
And that's kind of the overall procedure or the cancer diagnosis procedure.
And by that we conclude the business case.
And now let's shift into some of the machine learning terms.
I hope you guys enjoyed that section and see you in the next section.